JEREMY: Hello everyone.
Time for some more
functional programming.
Let's go.
You know, the zip is a
remarkable invention.
The two rows of
interlocking teeth
are combined using the zipper.
Well today, we're going to
think about the Haskell zip
function, which combines
not interlocking teeth,
but distinct lists of elements.
Here, I'm drawing a list
of strings, different food
stuffs here-- fish, bread, and
salt-- represented as Haskell
strings.
Second list-- chips,
butter, and pepper.
And what we see is that
the first two elements
from each list really
belong together
as a pair-- fish and chips.
It's the same with the second
two elements from the lists.
Bread and butter belong
together as a pair.
And indeed the last element
from each list, salt and pepper,
they also belong
together as a pair.
So from a pair of
lists, I now have
a list of pairs,
which is precisely
the behavior of
the zip function.
Hi.
Now, we're going to
evaluate some zip function
calls inside the Haskell
interpreter, GHCi.
If you haven't installed GHCi
on your system yet, don't worry.
You can evaluate
all the code I'm
going to show you
using the TryHaskell
online environment,
which you should
have used for your tutorials.
First, let's zip together
two lists of integers.
We've got a list containing
elements 1, 2, 3,
and another list containing
elements 4, 5, 6.
And when I zip these
two lists together,
I'll end up with a new
list of pairs of integers.
The first element
from the first list
is in a pair with the first
element from the second list
and so on.
I can zip together two
lists of different types.
There is an integer list.
And here is a string,
which, as you know,
in Haskell is represented
as a character list.
So this should give
me a list of pairs
where the first element
of each pair is an integer
and the second element of
each pair is a character.
Indeed, 1 and a pair together.
2 and b are paired together.
And 3 and c are paired together.
You might be asking,
what if I want
to zip together three lists to
get a single list of triples?
And that too is possible.
Let's use the zip3 function.
So there is a character
list, string Glasgow.
String Beijing is
another character list.
And the string Nairobi is
And indeed, when I evaluate
this zip3 function,
I'm going to end up with
a single list of triples.
The first triple has the first
letter of each of those cities.
And the last triple has the last
letter of each of those triples
and so on.
Conveniently, the strings
Glasgow, Beijing, and Nairobi
are all of seven
characters in length.
What happens if I
try to zip together
lists that have different
number of elements?
So here's the list of
integers from 1 to 10
inclusive, which has length 10.
And here is the list of
lowercase letters from A to Z
inclusive, which has length 26.
I'm going to try
and zip together
the list of integers 1 to 10 and
the list of characters A to Z.
Look, the output is as long as
the shorter of the two inputs.
So I've produced
a list of 10 pairs
and used up all the input
from the integers 1 to 10,
but only the first elements
from the alphabet A to Z.
So the length of the
output is the same
as the length of the
shorter of the two inputs.
Now, let's think about the
zipWith function, which
is a generalization of zip.
Whereas zip can only combine
elements from two input lists
by creating pairs
of those elements,
zipWith allows us to
provide a function that
tells us how to combine the
elements from the input lists.
So let's do zipWith using
the max function, which
will allow us to combine input
elements of integer lists.
And in the output
list, we'll have
the maximum of the corresponding
two entries in the input lists.
So you see the two integer lists
there, 1, 2, 3 and 0, 2, 4.
Well, the max element in
each of the list locations
will be in the output list
when zipWith is evaluated here.
And indeed, we see
the first element
1 is the greater of the
two corresponding elements
in the input list.
And for the last
element, 4 is the greater
of the two elements in the
corresponding input lists.
Let's try another zipWith.
Recall that if we specify an
infix operator in parentheses,
it becomes a prefix function.
So we're going to
combine elements
from 1, 2, 3 and 0, 2, 4
by adding them together,
which should give us
the list of the sums.
1 and 0 makes 1.
2 add 2 makes 4.
3 add 4 makes 7.
Now, let's replicate the
behavior of the zip function
we saw earlier using
the more general zipWith
function we know about now.
Remember, zip took an
element from the first input
list and then an element
from the second input list
and then produced in the
corresponding element
in the output list
the pair of those two
elements from the input list.
What I've written is
a lambda expression
to perform this operation.
Take one element,
another element,
then produce a
pair of elements.
We'll look at lambda
expressions in more detail later
in the course.
But for now, don't
worry about the details.
So let's try this
zipWith function here
with this lambda
expression using a pair
the lists we looked at earlier.
And we see that the output
is the same list of pairs.